For a species that is barely understood and would seem impossible to keep in captivity, they sure are one of the easiest insects to keep by far! Seriously, it doesn't get much simpler than this. How simple? Just read below.

## Introduction
Unlike most large beetles, the triceratops beetle consumes meat as an adult. Jelly cups and vegetables need not apply here.

## Main food sources
During warm seasons, it's best to feed them live insects. They can eat soft-bodied insects, but they mainly eat hard-bodied ones in the wild. So capturing small beetles, cicadas, (native, non-native ones might contain neurotoxins) roaches, or anything else that doesn't fly around much is a perfect food for them. A great way to get free food is to setup a large white sheet with a blacklight attached to it (aka a moth sheet) and place it near a place with lots of native plants, especially near woods and savannas. After a few hours of sitting out at night (start as early as possible), you're bound to have some critters the beetle can eat.

During cold seasons, just feed them whatever meat you've cooked or have on hand. Sandwich meat is what I use since it's cheap, something the family buys regularly, and free of any bacteria that could harm the beetle. Avoid uncooked meats as this can kill the beetle most likely. If you wouldn't eat it, nor should the beetle. If you own reptiles and feed them live insects, you can use most feeder species. Avoid anything that's been enhanced for reptiles, these beetles don't need high nutrition foods. I've been told that fish or turtle food can be fed to them, but I honestly don't believe it, so avoid it. And if you're going to use cooked meat, feed them some before you season the meat.

You may notice what look like stringy white creatures wriggling around in the soil wherever you've placed meat in the container (if your soil is sourced from North America). These are most likely going to be grindal worms (Enchytraeus buchholzi), a species of pot worm that's closely related to earthworms. These are actually a great food source for triceratops beetles and are, in fact, something they eat in the wild! The moment they appear, you'll quickly find your beetle start eating them. Not only that, but these worms help increase soil health too. So if you see them, LEAVE THEM. They won't take over the enclosure because triceratops beetles are one of their main predators.

## Foods to avoid
Raw meat (excluding arthropods), excessive fruits and vegetables, any live arthropod larger than the beetle or capable of killing them, any arthropod known to contain poisons/toxins (moths, bees, spiders, etc), heavily processed human or pet foods, wild crickets (known to carry bacteria that can kill arthropods and even reptiles), any roach found outside their native range (especially large African species which are known to have neurotoxins to deter predators), gastropods (probably not good for them), anything you're not knowledgeable on.

## Recommended foods
Almost any dead or alive beetle, hemipteran (true bugs, excluding predatory ones), US native cockroach, commerically raised dead grasshopper and cricket, grindal worm, literally anything found in rotting wood, human-safe meat (sandwich meat, cooked meat).

## Proportions
For insects larger than a US quarter, one insect every 3-5 days is good. For insects smaller than a US quarter, one insect a day or multiple every 3-5 days is good. Uneaten insects are no problem for this beetle, they're rather resistant to the fungi and gnats that eat decaying insects. Obviously it's still good practice to remove anything that's stinking up the entire enclosure. Grindal worms will usually make quick work of anything not eaten by the beetle.

For cooked meats, you can give them something the size of an Oreo cookie and that should easily last 3-5 days. For sandwich meat, you can give them something roughly half the size of a US dollar bill in a small container every 2-3 days, or you can give them one the size of a full US dollar bill in a large container every 3-5 days. I would not recommend leaving these foods out after two days of not eating because the bacteria that forms may not be safe for the beetle. If your enclosure already has an established grindal worm population, then you can leave sandwich meat as it's thin enough for them to consume rather quickly, but larger pieces of meat might still grow nasty.
