Disclaimer: I don't condone the stealing of wildlife from their habitats unless you plan to breed them or research them. Even then, only take males if possible since they're far more commmon. This is a very difficult species to breed, so chances are you will have zero reason to take anything other than a single male individual. Experienced breeders should still try and limit the amount of females they take. As is the case with most beetles, NEVER take the grubs/larvae as they will most certainly die in captivity or even die just by being interacted with.

With that disclaimer out of the way, triceratops beetles live in and around various forms of rotting wood, whether it be entire trees fallen or just a stump, mostly in the southeastern US (though they can be found throughout the sunbelt and into Mexico). They're most commonly found during the warmest spring and summer days when adults are likely out to mate. Adults can potentially be found outside their homes during summer nights. I'll upload pictures later to help you properly ID them, it's not too terribly difficult.

This species is unfortunately quite understudied, but what we do know is the following. The larvae feed on wood, fungus, detritis, etc. The adults are carnivorous and primarily eat competitors to their larvae, such as worms, other species larvae, and even the hard-bodied parents of their competitors! While species such as Odontotaenius disjunctus (horned passalus beetle) defend their larvae by shielding them from competitors, Phileurus truncatus goes on the offense and kills and eats its competitors.

Due to their similarities with passalus beetles, right down to using stridulation to communicate, it's very well possible that triceratops beetle colonies are advanced and the beetles themselves capable of multiple forms of communication and calls. Like I said earlier, this species is criminally understudied. As you'll see in the behavior section, they truly do seem intelligent in my opinion. If you're reading this and have lots of grant money, please go study this species!
